# Percentiles
- Use Case
     - When there are a large number of records that need to be ranked, individual ranks (e.g., 1, 2, 3, 4…) are ineffective in helping teams determine the best of the distribution from the rest. 
     -  Percentiles help better describe large datasets. 
     -  For example, a team might want to reach out to the Top 5% of customers.
     - You can use window functions to identify what percentile (or quartile, or any other subdivision) a given row falls into. The syntax is NTILE(# of buckets). In this case, ORDER BY determines which column to use to determine the quartiles (or whatever number of ‘tiles you specify).
### Percentiles Syntax
- The following components are important to consider when building a query with percentiles:
```sql
    NTILE + the number of buckets you’d like to create within a column (e.g., 100 buckets would create traditional percentiles, 4 buckets would create quartiles, etc.)
    OVER
    ORDER BY (optional, typically a date column)
    AS + the new column name
```
#### Expert Tip
- In cases with relatively few rows in a window, the NTILE function doesn’t calculate exactly as you might expect. 
 - For example, If you only had two records and you were measuring percentiles, you’d expect one record to define the 1st percentile, and the other record to define the 100th percentile. Using the NTILE function, what you’d actually see is one record in the 1st percentile, and one in the 2nd percentile.
   In other words, when you use an NTILE function but the number of rows in the partition is less than the NTILE(number of groups), 
   then NTILE will divide the rows into as many groups as there are members (rows) in the set but then stop short of the requested number of groups. If you’re working with very small windows, keep this in mind and consider using quartiles or similarly small bands.
```sql
NTILE(# of buckets) OVER (ORDER BY ranking_column) AS new_column_name

SELECT  customer_id,
        composite_score,
        NTILE(100) OVER(ORDER BY composite_score) AS percentile
FROM    customer_lead_score;
```
