# Core Window Functions
- Syntax
```
AGGREGATE_FUNCTION (column_1) OVER
 (PARTITION BY column_2 ORDER BY column_3)
  AS new_column_name;
```
- As a reminder, a window function allows users to compare one row to another without doing any joins.
-  Window functions are effective when you want to measure trends over time or rank a specific column, and it retains the total number of records without collapsing or condensing any of the original datasets.

- There are a few key terms to review as a part of understanding core window functions:
    - PARTITION BY: A subclause of the OVER clause. I like to think of PARTITION BY as the GROUP BY equivalent in window functions. PARTITION BY allows you to determine what you’d like to “group by” within the window function. Most often, you are partitioning by a month, region, etc. as you are tracking changes over time.
    - OVER: This syntax signals a window function and precedes the details of the window function itself.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- The sequence of Code for Window Functions
     - Typically, when you are writing a window function that tracks changes or a metric over time you are likely to structure your syntax with the following components:
         - An aggregation function (e.g., sum, count, or average) + the column you’d like to track
         - OVER
         - PARTITION BY + the column you’d like to “group by”
         - ORDER BY (optional and is often a date column)
          - AS + the new column name
