# Performance Tuning
- One way to make a query run faster is to reduce the number of calculations that need to be performed.
- Some of the high-level things that will affect the number of calculations a given query will make include:
   - Table size
   - Joins
   - Aggregations

- Query runtime is also dependent on some things that you can’t really control related to the database itself:

   - Other users running queries concurrently on the database
   - Database software and optimization (e.g., Postgres is optimized differently than Redshift)
```sql
SELECT *
FROM orders
WHERE occurred_at >= '2016-01-01'
AND occurred_at < '2016-07-01'

SELECT SUM(poster_qty) AS sum_poster_qty
FROM orders
WHERE occurred_at >= '2016-01-01'
AND occurred_at < '2016-07-01'
LIMIT 10
```
```sql
SELECT account_id,
       SUM(poster_qty) AS sum_poster_qty
FROM   (SELECT * FROM orders LIMIT 100) sub
WHERE  occurred_at >= '2016-01-01'
AND    occurred_at < '2016-07-01'
GROUP BY 1
```
###tuning performance with LIMIT.
   - If you have time series data, limiting to a small time window can make your queries run more quickly.
   - Testing your queries on a subset of data, finalizing your query, then removing the subset limitation is a sound strategy.

When working with subqueries, limiting the amount of data you’re working with in the place where it will be executed
first will have the maximum impact on query run time.
The second thing you can do is to make joins less complicated, that is, reduce the number of rows that need to be evaluated. It is better to reduce table sizes before joining them. This can be done by creating subqueries and joining them to an outer query. Aggregating before joining will improve query speed; however, be sure that what you are doing is logically consistent. Accuracy is more important than run speed.


##### Query1
```sql
SELECT accounts.name,
       COUNT(*) AS web_events
FROM accounts
JOIN web_events events
ON events.account_id = accounts.id
GROUP BY 1
ORDER BY 2 DESC
```
###### Query2
```sql
SELECT a.name,
       sub.web_events
FROM   (SELECT account.id,
       COUNT( AS web_events
       FROM web_events
        GROUP BY 1) sub
JOIN   accounts a 
ON     a.id = sub.account_id
ORDER BY 2 DESC

```
Adding the command EXPLAIN at the beginning of any query allows you to get a sense of how long it will take your query to run. This will output a Query Plan which outlines the execution order of the query. The query plan will attach a cost to the query and the higher the cost, the longer the runtime. EXPLAIN is most useful to identify and modify those steps that are expensive. Do this then run EXPLAIN again to see if the speed/cost has improved.

###### Query1
```sql
EXPLAIN
SELECT *
FROM   web_events
WHERE  occurred_at >='2016-01-01'
AND    occurred_at < '2016-02-01'
```
##### Query2
```sql
EXPLAIN
SELECT *
FROM   web_events
WHERE  occurred_at >='2016-01-01'
AND    occurred_at < '2016-02-01'
LIMIT 100
```
