# Need for Views
- Assume you run a complex query to fetch data from multiple tables. Now, you’d like to query again on the top of the result set. And later, you’d like to query more on the same result set returned earlier. So, there arises a need to store the result set of the original query, so that you can re-query it multiple times. This necessity can be fulfilled with the help of views.
Understanding Views

- Tables in SQL reside in the database persistently. In contrast, views are the virtual tables that are derived from one or more base tables. The term virtual means that the views do not exist physically in a database, instead, they reside in the memory (not database), just like the result of any query is stored in the memory.

### The syntax for creating a view is

    CREATE VIEW <VIEW_NAME>
    AS
    SELECT …
    FROM …
    WHERE …

The query above is called a view-definition. Once created, you can query a view just like you’d query a normal table,
by using its name.
The tuples in a view are created as an outcome of a SQL query that selects the filtered data from one or more tables. 


#### Example 1
- Consider the same Parch & Posey database schema again, where the sales_reps table contains details about sales representatives and the region table contains the list of regions.

    Suppose you are managing sales representatives who are looking after the accounts in the Northeast region only. The details of such a subset of sales representatives can be fetched from two tables, and stored as a view:

       create view v1
       as
       select S.id, S.name as Rep_Name, R.name as Region_Name
       from sales_reps S
       join region R
       on S.region_id = R.id
       and R.name = 'Northeast';

The query above will store the result as a view (virtual table) with the name “V1” that can be queried later.

#### Example 2 
- Consider another example from Parch & Posey database schema again, where you have practiced the following query in the “Joins” lesson:

    Provide the name for each region for every order, as well as the account name and the unit price they paid (total_amt_usd/total) for the order. Your final result should have 3 columns: region name, account name, and unit price.

The query would be

       CREATE VIEW V2
       AS
       SELECT r.name region, a.name account, 
              o.total_amt_usd/(o.total + 0.01) unit_price
       FROM region r
       JOIN sales_reps s
       ON s.region_id = r.id
       JOIN accounts a
       ON a.sales_rep_id = s.id
       JOIN orders o
       ON o.account_id = a.id;

You can save the result set of the query as a view (virtual table) with the name “V2” that can be queried later.

    Note - You can use any SELECT query in the CREATE VIEW query.
    The above two examples show a join query, whereas the next example shows a subquery used in creating a view.

#### Example 3
- The subquery you saw earlier, can be also stored as a view.

    Show the report which channels send the most traffic per day on average to Parch and Posey.

       CREATE VIEW V3
       AS
       SELECT channel, AVG(events) AS average_events
       FROM (SELECT DATE_TRUNC('day',occurred_at) AS day,
                       channel, COUNT(*) as events
                FROM web_events 
                GROUP BY 1,2) sub
       GROUP BY channel

Now, this view can be queried for any information that it contains. For example, you can see the maximum value of average_events as:

    select max(average_events)
    from v3;

### Points to Remember

- Can we update the base tables by updating a view?

Since views do not exist physically in the database, it is may or may not be possible to execute UPDATE operations on views. 
It depends on the SELECT query used in the view definition. Generally,
if the SELECT statement contains either an AGGREGATE function, GROUPING, or JOIN, then the view may not update the underlying base tables.

- Can we insert or delete a tuple in the base table by inserting or deleting a tuple in a view?

Again, it depends on the view definition. If a view is created from a single base table, then yes, you can insert/delete tuples by doing so in the view.

- Can we alter the view definition?

Most of the databases allow you to alter a view. 
For example, Oracle and IBM DB2 allows us to alter views and provides CREATE OR REPLACE VIEW option to redefine a view.
