Often, SQL users will question the differences between joins and subqueries. 
After all, they essentially do the same thing: join tables together to create a single output. 
## Differences between Subqueries and Joins
### Use Cases:

##### Subquery:
When an existing table needs to be manipulated or aggregated to then be joined to a larger table.
##### Joins: 
A fully flexible and discretionary use case where a user wants to bring two or more tables together and select and filter as needed.

### Syntax:

##### Subquery:
A subquery is a query within a query. The syntax, as a result, has multiple SELECT and FROM clauses.
##### Joins:
A join is simple stitching together multiple tables with a common key or column. A join clause cannot stand and be run independently.
### Dependencies:

##### Subquery:
A subquery clause can be run completely independently. When trying to debug code, subqueries are often run independently to pressure test results before running the larger query.
##### Joins: 
A join clause cannot stand and be run independently.

### Similarities between Subqueries and Joins
##### Output:
Both subqueries and joins are essentially bringing multiple tables together (whether an existing table is first manipulated or not) to generate a single output.
##### Deep-dive topics:
What happens under the hood: Query plans are similar for both subqueries and joins. 

### Subquery vs Joins Overview
| Components 	                                                    | Subquery  |	JOINS|
|-----------------------------------------------------------------|-----------|------|
| Combine data from multiple tables into a single result          |    X 	    |  X|
| Create a flexible view of tables stitched together using a “key” |		        |  X|
| Build an output to use in a later part of the query              | 	X 	    | |
| Subquery Plan: What happens under the hood                      | 	X 	    |  X|


##### Query 1

    SELECT product_id,
           name,
           price
    FROM db.product
    Where price > (SELECT AVG(price)
                  FROM db.product)

##### Query 2

    SELECT a.brand_id,
           a.total_brand_sales
           AVG(b.product_price)
    FROM brand_table a
    JOIN brand_table b
    ON b.brand_id = a.brand_id
    GROUP BY a.brand_id, a.total_brand_sales
    ORDER BY a.total_brand_sales desc;

#### Again
##### Subqueries:
- Output: Either a scalar (a single value) or rows that have met a condition.
- Use Case: Calculate a scalar value to use in a later part of the query (e.g., average price as a filter).
- Dependencies: Stand independently and be run as complete queries themselves.
##### Joins:
- Output: A joint view of multiple tables stitched together using a common “key”.
- Use Case: Fully stitch tables together and have full flexibility on what to “select” and “filter from”.
- Dependencies: Cannot stand independently.
