###### Note:
- Before writing any code, a strong SQL user considers what problem he or she is trying to solve, 
where the subquery needs to be placed, and larger tradeoffs (e.g., readability).
- The key concept of placement is where exactly the subquery is placed within the context of the larger query. There are four different places where a subquery can be inserted. From my experience, the decision of which placement to leverage stems from (1) the problem at hand and (2) the readability of the query.
# Subquery Placement:
- ***With:*** This subquery is used when you’d like to “pseudo-create” a table from an existing table and visually scope the temporary table at the top of the larger query.
- ***Nested:*** This subquery is used when you’d like the temporary table to act as a filter within the larger query, which implies that it often sits within the where clause.
- ***Inline:*** This subquery is used in the same fashion as the WITH use case above. However, instead of the temporary table sitting on top of the larger query, it’s embedded within the from clause.
- ***Scalar:*** This subquery is used when you’d like to generate a scalar value to be used as a benchmark of some sort.
### For example
when you’d like to calculate the average salary across an entire organization
to compare to individual employee salaries. Because it’s often a single value that is
generated and used as a benchmark, the scalar subquery often sits within the select clause.
### Advantages:
- ***Readability:*** With and Nested subqueries are most advantageous for readability.
- ***Performance:*** Scalar subqueries are advantageous for performance and are often used on smaller datasets.
