# Subquery Formatting

- ***The first concept*** that helps when thinking about the format of a subquery is the placement of it:
    - with, nested, inline, or scalar.

- ***The second concept*** to consider is an indentation, which helps heighten readability for your future self or other users that want to leverage your code. The examples in this class are indented quite far—all the way to the parentheses. This isn’t practical if you nest many subqueries, but in general, be thinking about how to write your queries in a readable way. Examples of the same query written in multiple different ways are provided below. You will see that some are much easier to read than others.
Badly Formatted Queries



Here is the first, where it is impossible to decipher what is going on:

        SELECT * FROM (SELECT DATE_TRUNC('day',occurred_at) AS day, channel, COUNT(*) as events FROM web_events GROUP BY 1,2 ORDER BY 3 DESC) sub;

This second version, which includes some helpful line breaks, is easier to read than the previous version,
    but it is still not as easy to read as the queries in the Well Formatted Query section.

     SELECT *
     FROM (
     SELECT DATE_TRUNC('day',occurred_at) AS day,
     channel, COUNT(*) as events
     FROM web_events 
     GROUP BY 1,2
     ORDER BY 3 DESC) sub;

Well Formatted Query

Now for a well-formatted example, you can see the table we are pulling from much easier than in the
previous queries.

      SELECT *
      FROM (SELECT DATE_TRUNC('day',occurred_at) AS day,
                     channel, COUNT(*) as events
      FROM web_events 
      GROUP BY 1,2
      ORDER BY 3 DESC) sub;
#### Note
- Additionally, if we have a GROUP BY, ORDER BY, WHERE, HAVING, or any other statement following our subquery
, we would then indent it at the same level as our outer query.

- The query below is similar to the above, but it is applying additional statements to the outer query, 
so you can see there are GROUP BY and ORDER BY statements used on the output and are not tabbed.
The inner query GROUP BY and ORDER BY statements are indented to match the inner table.

    SELECT *
    FROM (SELECT DATE_TRUNC('day',occurred_at) AS day,
                    channel, COUNT(*) as events
          FROM web_events 
          GROUP BY 1,2
          ORDER BY 3 DESC) sub
    GROUP BY day, channel, events
    ORDER BY 2 DESC;
##### Tip

Note that you should not include an alias when you write a subquery in a conditional statement. 
This is because the subquery is treated as an individual value (or set of values in the IN case) rather than as a table. Nested and Scalar subqueries often do not require aliases the way With and Inline subqueries do.

##### Nested Subquery

    SELECT *
    FROM orders
    WHERE DATE_TRUNC('month',occurred_at) =
     (SELECT DATE_TRUNC('month',MIN(occurred_at)) AS min_month
      FROM orders)
    ORDER BY occurred_at

