# The ORDER BY statement 
- It allows us to sort our results using the data in any column. 

If you are familiar with Excel or Google Sheets, using ORDER BY is similar to sorting a sheet using a column. A key difference, however, is that using ORDER BY in a SQL query only has temporary effects, for the results of that query, unlike sorting a sheet by column in Excel or Sheets.

In other words, when you use ORDER BY in a SQL query, your output will be sorted that way, but then the next query you run will encounter the unsorted data again. It's important to keep in mind that this is different than using common spreadsheet software, where sorting the spreadsheet by column actually alters the data in that sheet until you undo or change that sorting. This highlights the meaning and function of a SQL "query."
##### Note:
The ORDER BY statement always comes in a query after the SELECT and FROM statements, but before the LIMIT statement. If you are using the LIMIT statement, it will always appear last. As you learn additional commands, the order of these statements will matter more.

##### Remember:
**DESC** can be added after the column in your ORDER BY statement to sort in descending order, as the default is to sort in ascending order.

#### Example:
    SELECT *
    FROM orders
    ORDER BY occurred_at
    LIMIT 1000;


#### Example:
        SELECT  account_id,
                total_amt_usd
        FROM orders
        ORDER By total_amt_usd DESC, account_id

we can ORDER BY more than one column at a time. When you provide a list of columns in an ORDER BY command, the sorting occurs using the leftmost column in your list first, then the next column from the left, and so on. We still have the ability to flip the way we order using DESC
This query selected account_id and total_amt_usd from the orders table, and orders the results first by total_amt_usd in descending order and then account_id.
